IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com
THE INFLUENCE OF STUDY ATTITUDES AND STUDY HABITS
ON THE ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE OF THE STUDENTS
Jhoselle Tus
Social Science - Subject Area Head, St. Paul College of Bocaue, Bocaue, Bulacan, Philippines
ABSTRACT
Students' academic performance embodies an essential part of the constellation of factors determinant
of student success. Also, it plays a very significant role in education, primarily as a concrete tool to
assess the student's learning process. Psychologists and researchers have attempted to comprehend
how students vary in processing, retaining, and retrieving learning information and have used various
personality, attitudinal, cognitive styles, and ability measures. Thus, this study's primary purpose was
to determine the students' study attitudes, study
habits, and academic performance. Further, this
examined the influence of study attitudes and study habits on their academic performance. The study
respondents were the senior high school students in a Catholic School in Bulacan, Philippines. The
Descriptive-correlation research method was utilized to describe the respondents' profile in terms of
their study attitudes, study habits, and academic senior high school students participated in this
performance. A total of one hundred thirty (130) study. The null hypothesis at .05 alpha level of
significance was tested to determine the influence of study attitudes and study habits on the students'
academic performance. The computed multiple
regression analysis results revealed that study
attitudes and study habits do not significantly affect senior high school students' academic
performance.
Keyword: Study attitudes, study habits, academic performance, senior high school students
1. INTRODUCTION Students' academic performance embodies an essential part of the constellation of factors determinant of student success. Also, it plays a very significant role in education, primarily as a concrete tool to assess the student's learning process. Psychologists and researchers have attempted to comprehend how students vary in processing, retaining, and retrieving learning information and have used various personality, attitudinal, cognitive styles, and ability measures. One of the significant factors in assessing academic performance is through their study habits and attitudes. Arieta, Gementiza & Saco (2017) highlighted the critical role of study habits in the students' lives. They concluded that the success or failure of each student depends upon their study habits. Moreover, their success depends on their ability, intelligence, and effort. The influence of the students' good study habits in doing their homework, active participation in class, managing their time, being focused, and working hard have shown a significant positive
correlation on their academic performance (Fouche, 2017). Furthermore, Ebele (2017) suggested that students cannot perform and improve their academic performance without developing study habits. In support of the study mentioned above, Ebele & Olofu (2017), in their study entitled "Study Habit and Its Impact on Secondary School Students' Academic Performance in Biology in the Federal Capital Territory," revealed that there is a significant relationship between the said variables. This implied that students who developed good study habits are likely to have better academic performance in the school and enhance their academic success. In contrast, the study of Ozsoy et al. (2017) on the relationship between metacognition and study habits and attitudes showed no significant association for low and medium student achievers. Further, this study explains that students with high achievements are more likely to have better study habits and attitudes.
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 11
Through this study, the researcher aims to contribute to psychology and education by discovering and assessing the influence of study attitudes and study habits on senior high school students' academic performance. 1.1. Research Questions This study aims to determine the influence of study attitudes and study habits on the students' academic performance for School Year 2018- 2019. Specifically, this study will seek to answer the following questions: 1. What is the profile of the respondents' study attitudes in terms of the following: 1.1. Teacher Approval; and 1.2. Education Acceptance? 2. How can the respondents' study habits be described in terms of: 2.1 Delay avoidance; 2.2 Work method; 3. What is the level of academic performance of the students? 4. Do the respondents' study attitudes and study habits significantly affect their academic performance? 2. REVIEW OF LITERATURE 2.1. The Study Habits of the Filipino Youth One of the essential parts in the field of education is learning how-to-study. This holds, most especially for the students no matter where they are or what programs they are taking, whether they are enrolled in a top engineering school in the Philippines, or a technical communication school somewhere in Manila, or even in the most advanced architecture university; their success will all depend on one thing - effort. (Mapua, 2016) While studying is the best way to grow and attain academic achievements, it is still a challenging task that needs to be done. Especially in this generation, distractions such as the internet, television, cellphones, and even friends are rampant. (Mapua, 2016)
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com It is also easy for studying to be disregarded, as it is often seen as an uninteresting endeavor. Studying takes more effort than is necessary as compared to merely passing an exam or a course. This kind of outlook in life is something that young people should change. Unfortunately, this is even carried on by students until they become professionals, causing them to procrastinate even in the workplace. At this point, procrastination or laziness becomes challenging to get rid of. Being lazy is undesirable in terms of a young adult's growth, affecting him as a student and as a future professional. (Mapua, 2016) According to Llavore, Duran, and Dungan (2015) in "Study Habits and The Performance of BSCS Students in Computer Programming-1", study habits play a vital role in students of any age. Such study habits will determine students' success in their educational career. The study aimed to seek whether the study habits of the students affect their performance in Computer Programming-1. Specifically, it determined the profile of the students according to their IQ and performance in computer programming-1, the levels of strengths and weaknesses of the student's study habits in accordance to their time management, study environment, test-taking as well as note-taking, reading, writing and math skills, and lastly the relationship between study habits and performance of the students. A descriptive survey research design was employed in the study wherein the questionnaire was the main instrument used to gather data. The respondents' population was 85 freshmen students in the ladderized education program obtained through the Cochran's formula. Finally, the results showed that only mathematics skill is positively and significantly correlated to the students' performance. The study of Daňo (2017) studied "Learning Styles, Study Habits, and Academic Performance of Nursing Students," looked into the academic performance and learning styles. Study habits of the first, second, and third-year nursing students of Cebu Normal University during the school year 2001-2002, to know whether a relationship existed among the variables. The locale of the study was the College of Nursing at Cebu Normal University. The study respondents consisted of 159 nursing students, 58 students from the first year, 66 from the second year, and 35 from the third year. The study utilized the descriptive
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 12
survey method to use the inventory and documentary records as the main instrument in gathering data. Documentary records, specifically the teachers' grade sheets, were used to evaluate the students' academic performance. The inventories used were the Learning Style Inventory developed by David Kolb, and the Study Habit Inventory by Peter Edwards. In the study conducted by Foz, Gomez, Luz, and Zarate (2016), "Study Habits of Academic Performers in Technological Institute of The Philippines," the researchers identified academic performers' study habits in Technological - Institute of the Philippines Manila. Only 76 respondents out of the total population of 105 scholars from the Excellence Roll for the second semester, Academic Year 2015-2016, were subjected to the study. The study also showed that the academic performers considered factors such as time management, learning techniques, and study environment as part of their study habits. These academic performers created a "to-do-list" arranged by importance and allotted time for leisure and fun while still working under pressure. The study showed most of the respondents sought other reference materials aside from the prescribed books and took down notes in terms of learning techniques. When it comes to preparing the examinations, only a few admitted that they review at least a week before the examination day. On another note, the preferable learning and studying environment among the academic performers were with classmates or groups at home, where there are silence and distractions. In the study of Aquino (2018), "Study Habits and Attitudes of Freshmen Students: Implications for Academic Intervention Programs," the substantive aim was to investigate the freshmen students' favorable and unfavorable study habits attitudes to formulate academic intervention programs. The instrument used in the study was "The Survey of Study Habits and Attitudes" (SSHA) by Brown and Holtzman (1969). The research findings indicate that students generally do not approve teacher methods, classroom management, and inefficient time management. The favorable and unfavorable study habits and attitudes of students were revealed. The implications of the study findings were discussed, and to design a framework of academic intervention programs among HEIs, the theory of confluent education was taken into consideration.
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com Olvido (2010) conducted a descriptive- correlational study entitled "Study Habits, Attitudes towards Biology and Performance among Philippine Science High School Students," which determined the study habits and attitudes of 58 second-year students from the Philippine High School Western Visayas towards biology and performance. The study habits and attitudes of the students were explored further in terms of differences and relationships. The results revealed that second-year PSHSWV students have desirable study habits and favorable attitudes towards biology and showed good academic performance. There were no significant differences and relationships observed in the study habits and attitudes towards biology and understanding. In this research, the eight areas of study habits contributed to the prediction of the students' performance in biology. A study entitled "Correlation Among Time Management, Study Habits and Academic Achievement of the Math Major Students" (Marpa, 2014) determined the math primary students' time management, study habits, and academic achievement in mathematics when grouped based on several variables such as year level, sex, number of siblings and type of school they have graduated from in high school. The primary purpose of the study is to determine the correlations of the variables above with each other. The researchers have incorporated three different instruments to measure the time management, study habits, and academic achievements of the students, which are as follows: "How Well Do You Manage Your Time?" (Mackenzie et al.), a 24-item Study Habit Questionnaire (Chua), and GPA. These were administered to 52 mathematics significant students of the Philippine Normal University Negros Occidental Branch. The results showed that time management is related to study habits and that study habits are related to academic achievement regarding mathematics. One of the reasons for the failing grades among students is their lack of ability to study. This is reflected in students' study habits 30 years ago (Pogue, 2000). A study conducted by Descargar and Cardona (2016) aimed to investigate the study habits and math performance of 108 randomly selected Grade 7 students from three public schools of the Municipality of San Manuel, Isabela, Philippines. To gather data, they used
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 13
questionnaires, observation, and group interviews. Besides, they also interviewed four teachers and 70 parents. As a result, the study found that study habits are a significant factor in acquiring academic excellence. However, teachers observed that students nowadays have poor study habits. In contrast, parents affirm their children's claim. Moreover, students' study habits broadly describe students' academic performance. The research mentioned above has shown how the relationship between study habits and attitudes with the students' academic performance. However, there were some variables presented here, which was under the study habits. It shows the students' different actions since the studies have different hypotheses that make it different from each other. In general, the related literature and studies gathered and presented in this chapter show the various gaps between the variables, which is the study habits, study attitudes, and academic performance. 2.2. Study Attitudes An attitude could be defined as a dimension of personality reflected in an individual's behavior towards others and certain situations. It is placed concerning individual level, making mentalities as a characteristic of the community. (Anghelache, 2012) In the study of Anghelache (2012) entitled "The Relationship Between School Performance and Students' Mentality Towards School Tasks Accomplishment. Preliminary Study," the issue regarding mentality is analyzed in correlation with attitudes. The study aims to discuss the issue of Romanian students with school tasks. Several 200 subjects were taken from the students of Dunarea de Jos University of Galati, Romania. Results showed that students have differences in retrospect to school tasks: Some take on stress to have successful educational outcomes while others believe that there are other ways to achieve that. Versova and Mala (2016) emphasized the significance of school and learning attitudes as a significant predictor of academic achievement in their paper: "Attitude Toward School and Learning and Academic Achievement of Adolescents." This includes the intersexual differences in attitude toward school and learning in adolescents. The respondents of the study consisted of 269 secondary level adolescents
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com studying in secondary schools. The results indicated a significant difference between girls and boys in their adolescence regarding ATSL, girls being more positive. In the same regard, there was also a significant relationship between ATSL and GPA. With the research findings as a basis, the conclusion stated that ATSL is an important predictor of academic achievement. The study entitled "Study on Relationship Between Attitude Towards Education and Academic Achievement in Secondary Level Minority Students" by Das et al., 2014 states that attitude is the belief that one has towards people and his surroundings. Their positive attitudes may influence the academic performance of students. In the current study, the researchers accentuate that some prime factors such as anxiety, socio- economic status, etc. could create a barrier to academic achievement. Furthermore, an investigation was attempted by the researchers to study if there are any differences between the boys and girls students of a minority community in regards to their attitude toward education and academic achievement. Through random selection, the sample of 257 secondary level minority students was chosen. The results indicated no significant difference in attitudes towards education and academic achievement between boys and girls. According to Zamir & Israeli (2017), childhood vaccinations are an important component of primary prevention. It is also said that Maternal and Child Health (MCH) clinics in Israel provide routine vaccinations without charge. The study also mentioned several vaccine-preventable- diseases outbreaks (measles, mumps) that emerged in Jerusalem the past decade. Their study entitled "Knowledge, Attitudes and Perceptions about Routine Childhood Vaccinations among Jewish Ultra-Orthodox Mothers Residing in Communities with Low Vaccination Coverage in the Jerusalem District" aimed to study the attitudes and knowledge on vaccinations among mothers in communities with low immunization coverage. The method of their study was qualitative, including focus groups and semi- structured interviews. The study's findings indicated that low immunization coverage was defined below the district's mean for measles- mumps-rubella-varicella 1st dose and diphtheria- tetanus-pertussis 4th dose, 96 and 89%,
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 14
respectively. Five communities were included; all were Jewish ultra-orthodox. The main goal of another study entitled "Students' Attitudes and Their Academic Performance in Nationhood Education" (Awang et al., 2013) was to instill a sense of loyalty and passion into the nation. Several academic subjects at higher education, such as Malaysian Studies, Ethnic Relationships, and National Language, have been implemented to achieve the goal. Malaysian Studies, in this sense, is one of the compulsory courses offered by all private universities in Malaysia that are intended to educate students with national values, patriotism, and belongingness to the country; however, past empirical evidence has shown that students lacked the interest to learn such subjects. Therefore, the study investigated contributing factors to students' academic achievement and examined their attitudes towards that subject. The researchers utilized the quantitative approach and categorized four main factors: suitability and interest in the syllabus, active in class, early preparation and revision, types of enjoyable activities, interest in teaching aids, and good class attendance. The study concluded that students' perception of their lectures plays a significant role in determining their learning outcomes in Malaysian Studies. At the same time, the lecturers believe that learning is a factor that significantly contributes to the student's achievement in this subject. In Ebele's study entitled "Attitude Toward School and Academic Achievement" (2017), it was concluded that skill development was more pronounced in students affirmative in their attitude toward school due to its association with typical classroom objectives and drill routine. In this study, two urban eleventh graders were contrasted in their attitudes toward school, utilizing a specifically developed poll. There was an approximate number of groups consisting of 45, which were classified as "satisfied" and "dissatisfied" with school and was compared through the Iowa Tests of Educational Development. "Satisfied" students in this study generally out-performed "dissatisfied" students at a statistically significant level. The advantage of "satisfied" students tended to be greater on tests where academic skills were involved compared to tests involving general background information.
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com 2.3. Study Habits The concept of study habits and attitudes focuses on the student's performance in school. It is the students' hard work and effort to be able to achieve better academic performance in their studies. Study habits are part of a student's everyday life. It contributes significantly to the development of knowledge and perceptual capacities. This characterizes a person's willingness to learn, how far he wants to go, and how much he wants to achieve. These all could be decided with the help of one's study habits throughout life. In the study of Rabia et al. (2017), results showed that there is a significant relationship between study habits and academic performance of the students, which was checked by using chi-square on the sample of 270 students taken from two colleges of Pakistan. According to the study of Kaur & Pathania (2017), the factors affecting the study habits among college students were age, family income, and education, which were significantly related. The result of their study showed significant relations between academic achievement and study habits. It shows that age, family income, and education are factors of how a student develops his study habits, and it has a relation to his academic achievement. However, cognitive factors such as intellectual ability are regarded as predictors of academic success. Many kinds of research have examined the role of non-cognitive factors such as study skills, motivation, study habits, and attitudes on academic achievement. The study concluded that good study habits and positive study attitudes might positively impact the students' academic achievement (Sikhwari, 2016). In the study entitled "Relationship Between Study Habits and Secondary School Students' Academic Performance in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State," the study showed no significant difference in the study habit score of male and female students. Furthermore, the study shows a significant relationship between the study habits of students and academic performance (Onabamiro & Odunlami, 2017). This study showed that gender is not a factor in the relation of study habits with the students' academic
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 15
performance, but it all takes place on what kind of study habits the students have developed. Some study habit constructs, such as homework, time allocation, reading and note-taking, and teacher consultation, influence physics students' academic performance (Atsuwe & Moses, 2017). Their study was designed to investigate the influence of study habits on Physics students' academic performance in the Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi, Nigeria. The analysis of the data obtained revealed that the study habits mentioned greatly influence the respondents' academic performance. It implies that students who have good study habits can influence fellow pupils. Furthermore, Oladeni and Bimbo (2017) investigated the relationship between the variables of the study of secondary school students in Mathematics. The findings showed that note-taking, students' use of the library, and time allocation has a significant relationship with the students' academic performance in Mathematics. It means that these factors can help the students improve in the academic performance of their studies. According to Azzopardi & Camilleri (2018), study habits and perceived level of difficulty of specific topics is vital for the lecturer to give support, which will lead to higher academic achievement. The result showed no significant difference in students' study habits and the mean assessment mark obtained at the end of the first-year course. Looyeh, Fazelpour, Masoule, Chehrzad & Leili (2017) showed a significant relationship between the study habits of students and their academic performance. Determining the students' study habits and the relationship between their study habits and academic performance can improve their academic achievement and improve their study habits. In the study entitled "Changes in Study Habits of Chinese Adolescents and Factors Supporting These Habits-Focusing on the Transition Period from Elementary School to Junior High School" conducted by Okado, Kida, and Sakai (2018), a high correlation was indicated between the study habits of the students and academic results. Their study concluded that study habits are the reason for the development of academic achievement. Numan & Hasan (2017) studied the effects of study habits on test anxiety and academic achievement. Their study's findings indicated that
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com study habits have a significant effect on test anxiety and academic achievement. Furthermore, students with effective study habits perform better academically than students with poor study habits. The study entitled "Study Habits of Residential and Non-Residential Pupils of Grade III to V in Papumpare district of Arunachal Pradesh" revealed no significant difference between residential and non-residential pupils of grade III to V in Papumpare district of Arunachal Pradesh (Boli & Tok, 2017). In the study of Au, So, and Lee (2017), study effort has an insignificant positive influence on student performance. The study concluded that prior knowledge gradually increases its influence on performance as a student progresses through a 4- year undergraduate program. They argued that prior knowledge alone accurately predicts student performance and not the study effort of the students. Although, it was mentioned in the study that building solid study habits will benefit the students in their study years. Khan & Nisa (2016) examined the factors affecting the students' study habits of Government Colleges of Amroha District. Several 100 class VII students were chosen as the respondents of their study from Government Colleges of Amroha District. The findings of the study showed a significant effect of gender on the study habits of the subjects. However, in the study entitled "Factors Affecting Study Habits on the Academic Performance of Senior high school Students of Davao Doctors College," gender does not significantly impact the respondents' study habits (Arieta, Gementiza & Saco, 2017). According to Arieta, Gementiza, and Saco (2017), Study habits play a huge role in being a student. The success or failure of each student depends upon what kind of study habits they have. Some students don't study a lot but achieve higher, and some students study a lot but cannot achieve high performance. They implied that each student's success doesn't just rely on study habits alone but also upon the ability and intelligence of the students. In general, all of the variables mentioned tend to affect the academic performance of the students significantly. The study of the correlation between self-esteem and study habits with the students' academic performance showed that self-esteem does not
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 16
significantly impact academic performance. Still, study habits do (Alva, 2017). Masmiquel, Ferrer, and Fonseca (2017) studied the relationship between students' study habits and academic performance. The study concluded that the initial hypothesis is true, which revealed a relationship between students' study habits and their academic performance. Goud (2018) revealed that students have a positive attitude towards study habits in his study entitled "A Study on the Factors Influencing Study Habits of Tenth Class Students in Their Academic Achievements." The study focused on gender, locality, and school management type on tenth- class students' academic achievement. It is showed in the study that these factors influence the study habits of the respondents. The research emphasizes the importance of developing good study habits such as time management. Furthermore, in the study entitled "Study Habits of Distance Learners: A Comparative Analysis" of Stanley (2014), no significant difference was observed in the overall study habits of graduates and postgraduates, analyzing the courses, gender, and marital status of the learners. The conclusion of his study suggested that the three are not factors of the students' study habits. According to Vyas and Choudhary (2016), there are no significant differences among male and female adolescent students regarding their study habits. Furthermore, the result showed no significant difference between the study habits and socio-economic status. In the study of Foronda and Marisol (2017), it was stated that no significant relationship exists between the study habits, attitudes, and level of readiness within the respondents. This study demonstrated that students have positive attitudes rather than study habits towards the level of readiness. Furthermore, Oriogu & Subair (2017) stated that study habits are important to the students' academic performance. Their study revealed that reading habits have a significant effect on the academic performance of students. Oriogu & Subair (2017) examined the effect of reading habits on the students' academic performance, whereas the results revealed a significant effect between the variables. It is stated that students should read more to enhance
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com learning, which is important for academic purposes. Banares et al. (2016) mentioned that many studies have already been conducted regarding the variables as per this study. However, the result of each study depends on different settings. The study revealed no significant difference between male and female BSA students' study habits at the Technological Institute of the Philippines-Manila as to Time Management, Learning Techniques, and Study Environment. This shows that the gender of the students is not a factor in the students' study habits, especially in managing the time, learning techniques, and the study environment. In "Metacognition, study habits and attitudes," the study revealed no significant relationship between metacognition and study habits and attitudes for low and medium achievers. Still, a significant relationship was found in students who have high achievement. Furthermore, J.P. Fouche (2017) mentioned that good study habits, like doing assignments, participation in class, managing time, always being focused, and working hard, showed a positive correlation with academic performance. Generally, it shows that appropriate study habits and attitudes may help students improve their academic performance in school to be more efficient. It also shows that bad study habits have a significant negative relationship with the students' academic performance, the opposite of the factors mentioned above of good study habits (J.P Fouche, 2017). In the study entitled "Impact of social networking sites on study habits among Saudi nursing students in Hail University" conducted by Alsaqri and Dayrit (2018), it was shown that the effect of social media could be tremendous to students. If it affects the study habits, then it will also affect the academic performance of the respondents. According to Joshi & Sharma (2017), internet non- users have better study habits than internet users to dimension-wise, sex-wise, and streamwise. The study shows that students who don't use the internet have better study habits than the students who are surfing a lot on the internet. In the study of Alade & Kuku (2017), it was revealed that gender is not a factor in developing and improving study habits and achievement of the students in Mathematics. On the other hand,
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 17
the study's findings showed significant differences in the achievement of the students in mathematics and study habits. Vashishta, Ahuja & Sharma (2017) studied the impact of Facebook Addiction Disorder (FAD) on adolescents' study habits and their impact on academic performance. A total of 200 adolescents were chosen as respondents to determine the outcome of the study. The findings showed a significant negative impact of Facebook Addiction Disorder (FAD) on adolescents' study habits and academic achievement. This means that if the addiction to Facebook doesn't stop and keeps on growing, the study habits will become poor, which will result in poor academic performance. In four districts of Kashmir, research was conducted on the study habits of intellectually gifted students. A sample of 300 intellectually gifted students in the 11th-grade institution, aged 16-17, were chosen as respondents. The analyzed data were collected by using the Study Habit Inventory prepared by the researcher himself. Results showed that high and low intellectually gifted students differ significantly in their study habits (Ruqia, 2018). According to the study of Leyrer & Wilson (2017), using social media positively correlates with the students' amount of time. It indicates that social media websites should be used in the classroom. The researchers have found that social media websites' use correlates with the students' time used on social media. Lastly, results suggest that social media may negatively affect the study habits and academic performance of the students, especially the students within the field of biological sciences. Lau (2017) mentioned that social media had been part of everyone's everyday life, particularly among the students who excelled in social media in today's generation. Although the study revealed that using social media for academic purposes was not a significant predictor of academic performance. Nowadays, using social media for non-academic purposes is greatly shown, and thus it affects the students' academic performance because it reduces the learning time of students. In the study entitled "Time Management and Academic Performance: Empirical Survey from High Education in Mogadishu-Somalia," the impact of time management on the academic performance of the respondents was investigated,
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com and the result showed that time management has a significant and positive impact on academic performance at higher education in Mogadishu, Somalia (Osman & Mohamed, 2016). Therefore, time management is a great factor in the improvement of academic performance. Students have to be conscious of time in performing their academic activities to improve their academic performance (Aduke, 2015). Aduke (2015) stated that time management is a factor that students must value so that their lives would improve. His study revealed that procrastination, prioritization, and planning were big factors that affected the students' academic performance about time management. Students who don't manage their time might get problems, so students should be aware of time to avoid poor academic performance. Case Study Teaching Method is becoming a common teaching strategy in education (Bonney, 2015). In his study entitled "Case Study Teaching Method Improves Student Performance and Perceptions of Learning Gains," results showed that case studies are significantly more effective than other methods of teaching styles at increasing student performance. This study showed that case studies should not be forgotten and should be considered the best teaching method. Basri & Alghaswyneh (2015) identified the role of time management and its impact on the students' academic achievement. The results showed no significant relationship between the elements of students' time management in terms of planning and organization and their academic achievement. On the other hand, in the study entitled "The Effect of the Time Management Art on Academic Achievement among High School Students in Jordan," it was shown that there were a medium degree and static significance at the level of time management of the respondents (Al-Zoubi, 2016). It impacts greatly on the students' academic performance, so they should be able to learn to manage their time, especially in terms of studying. According to Sreelekha, Yogananda, Rameswari & Uddin (2016), in their research entitled "Study Habits and academic performance of first-year MBBS students." the main goal of education is the improvement of the students as they study in their school years. In their study, first-year MBBS students were chosen as the respondents who
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 18
participated voluntarily in their study. The use of a standardized questionnaire was adapted. This research revealed that students with fair study habits significantly scored more than those who have poor study habits. Priya and Dariti (2015) studied the level of study habits among school students. A total of 160 students were the respondents aged from 13-18 through the use of random sampling. The results revealed that many of the boys are poor in their study habits compared to the girls. Their study also showed that students coming from private schools are better than students from government schools in terms of study habits. Furthermore, the citizens' quality depends on the quality of their education, study habits, and study attitudes of the students who are learning. The quality of education is seen through the academic performance, which results from the study habits and study attitudes of the students. (Priya & Dairiti, 2015) Research on the students' study habits and their influence on undergraduate nursing students' academic performance has been conducted at the University of Calabar in Nigeria. A total number of 160 students were selected as respondents through a random sampling technique. The data were analyzed through the use of their own-made study habits inventory questionnaire. Results revealed no significant difference between students' academic performance and their study habits like individual studies, students who read at the library hostel, those away from the library, and the students who read at day rather than night. (Ella, Akpabio & Samson-Akpan, 2015) According to Mendezabal (2013), in her study, "Study Habits and Attitudes: The Road to Academic Success," students who have good study habits will likely pass. Also, study habits are acknowledged as one of the main factors in the students' academic performance. Her study showed a significant relationship between study habits, attitudes, and academic performance in the licensure examination. Furthermore, study habits like time management and work methods are factors of the student's success, and study attitudes were not related. In the study of Cakiroglu in 2014 entitled "Analyzing the effect of learning styles and study habits of distance learners on learning performances: A case of an introductory
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com programming course," results showed a significant relationship between learning styles, study habits, and learning performance. Olutola & Dosunmu (2016) had conducted a study regarding the impact of study habits and gender on science achievement. The results showed that there is a significant relationship between students' study habits and science achievement. A significant difference was also shown between the gender and science achievement of the students. Thiyagu (2013) studied how study habits can affect the students' academic achievement in terms of their gender, locality, and residency. The respondents were given a standardized tool for the measurement of the study habits variable. The results showed no significant relationship between study habits and the students' academic achievement concerning their gender, locality, and residency. In the study of Lawrence (2014) entitled "Relationship between Study Habits and Academic Achievement of Higher Secondary School Students," the present study was conducted to find the significant relationship between the study variables. The findings showed no significant difference between the study habits and the academic achievement of higher secondary schools. Time Management is important in all aspects of our lives, whether it be business, organizations, or education. On educational matters, the presence of time is very precious to students, teachers, heads, and the whole campus (Sayari, Jalagat & Dalluay). The researchers studied if there was a significant relationship between time management and the students' academic performance. The findings of the study showed that time management significantly correlates to students' academic performance. Furthermore, other factors, such as procrastination and socialization, have no significant relationship with the students' academic performance. According to the study of Khanam, Sahu, Rao, Kar & Quazi (2017), Time management is one of the skills that impact the students' academic performance. The researchers have conducted a study about time management and the respondents' academic achievement, which are the medical students in Odisha. The study revealed that the respondents who obtained a high percentage also had a high mean score on
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 19
general time management. And so, it means that time management is critical to improving one's academic performance. Marpa (2013) "Correlations Among Time Management, Study Habits and Academic Achievement Of The Math Major Students" determines the correlation of the variables among math major students. Time management, study habits, and academic achievement showed a significant correlation between the study respondents in Mathematics. This study shows that time management is part of the study habits and affects students' academic performance. In the study of Alimohamadi et al. (2018), entitled "Relation study between study habit and academic performance of nursing students in Hamadan," they attempted to examine the relationship of the study habits of the students and its relationship with the academic performance in a sample of 220 nursing students of Hamadan University of Medical Sciences. Results showed a positive correlation between the mean score of study habits and academic performance of the students. Akpan & Salome (2015) examined the effect of study habits on academic achievement. A total of 100 students were chosen through the simple random sampling technique as the respondents of this research. Findings revealed that most of the students spent a little amount of time studying while a few students study up to 6 hours. Furthermore, most of the students like to study alone while others prefer to study in groups. The researches that were mentioned and cited above have shown the relationship between study habits and attitudes with the students' academic performance. It shows the students' different actions since the studies have different hypotheses that make them different from each other. In general, the related literature and studies gathered and presented in this chapter show the different gaps between the study habits, attitudes, and academic performance. 3. MATERIALS AND METHODS 3.1. Participants Respondents of this study were the senior high school students in a Catholic School in Bulacan, Philippines, who were enrolled for the school year 2018 - 2019. The study utilized the universal sampling approach since the senior high school
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com students' population was not that huge; the study participants were the 130 senior high school students. 3.2. Instrument The study utilized Survey of Study Habits and Attitudes (SSHA - Form H) developed by Holtzman and Brown, as a primary instrument that determined the respondents' study attitudes and study habits. The questionnaire has a Cronbach alpha reliability coefficient of .86. It consists of 100 items with four scales: delay avoidance, work methods, teacher approval, and education acceptance. The six educational values in the SSHA questionnaire are characterized as follows: a) Delay Avoidance- the promptness in accomplishing academic requirements, lack of procrastination, and freedom from wasteful delay and distraction b) Work Methods- the use of effective study procedures, efficiency in doing academic assignments, and how-to-study skills c) Teacher Approval- the opinion of teachers and their classroom behavior and method d) Educational Acceptance- the approval of educational objectives, practices, and requirements e) Study Habits- a combined score of the Delay Avoidance and Work Methods scales to measure the academic behavior f) Study Attitudes- a combination of the scores of the Teacher Approval and Educational Acceptance scales to measure the intellectual beliefs 3.3. Procedures Upon achieving the vital results of this study in examining the influence of study attitudes and study habits on the academic performance of the senior high school students, the following steps were observed in conducting this research: The researcher secured permission by sending a transmittal letter to the Office of the Principal to achieve the study and obtain the general average of the learner's progress and achievement. To get a desirable and reliable result, rapport was set up primarily for the respondents before the assessment to establish respondents' interest in the activity. The researcher ensured that the
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 20
respondents were far from noise and other disturbances. Moreover, the researcher distributed the research instrument to the respondents. The respondents were given enough time to accomplish the questionnaires. After the students finished answering the questionnaires, the results were immediately tallied and tabulated. To measure the students' academic performance, the researcher gathered the learner's progress and achievement for the respondents of the school year 2018 - 2019. The data collected became the basis of the presentation, analysis, and interpretation of the findings. 4. RESULTS This part presents the findings according to the study's research questions. To compare the mean and find out the significance between variables, multiple linear regression was computed using IBM SPSS 20.0. 4.1. Respondents' Profile in terms of Study Attitudes and Study Habits This part is composed of the respondents' study attitudes and study habits in terms of teacher approval, education acceptance, delay avoidance, and work method. It includes four tables, Tables 1 to 4, with the essential information about the respondents' study attitudes and study habits. Several studies considered study attitudes as a critical factor to further progress the academic performance of students. Relative to the study, it is observed in Ebele's study entitled "Attitude Toward School and Academic Achievement" (2017), it was concluded that skill development was more pronounced in students affirmative in their attitude toward school due to its association with typical classroom objectives and drill routine. In this study, two urban eleventh graders were contrasted in their attitudes toward school employing a specifically developed poll. Furthermore, Llavore, Duran, and Dungan (2015), in "Study Habits and The Performance of BSCS Students in Computer Programming-1", study habits play a vital role in students of any age. Such study habits will determine students' success in their educational career. The study aimed to seek whether the study habits of the students affect their performance in Computer Programming-1. Specifically, it determined the profile of the
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com students according to their IQ and performance in computer programming-1, the levels of strengths and weaknesses of the student's study habits in accordance to their time management, study environment, test-taking as well as note-taking, reading, writing and math skills, and lastly the relationship between study habits and performance of the students. Tables 1 to 4 present the respondents' study attitudes and study habits based on the Survey of Study Habits and Attitudes (SSHA - Form H) developed by Holtzman and Brown. Data from Table 1 revealed that respondents - obtained very satisfactory mean scores of 3.69 3.74. Specifically, the respondents believe that their teachers deliberately give tests on the days following parties and ball games and go into teaching mainly because they enjoy it. Besides, the respondents reported mean scores of 2.55 to 3.65 described as satisfactory ratings indicating that they think that their teachers make their subjects enjoyable and meaningful, expect students to do too much studying outside of class, use words that I do not understand, talk too much, try to give the same amount of attention and help to all their students and secretly enjoy giving their students a "hard time." Furthermore, respondents believe that their teachers think that students who ask questions and participate in class discussions are only trying to "get in good" with them and feel that it is almost impossible for the average student to do all of his assigned homework. However, mean scores of 2.13 to 2.46 interpreted as reasonably satisfactory were recorded on study attitudes in terms of their teacher approval such as their teachers don't understand the needs and interests of students, allow their likes and dislikes for students to influence their grading too much like to show who's boss too much. Too narrow- minded and set in their ways, fail to explain the things they are trying to teach, and strict and know-it-all in dealing with students. These mean computations are indications that respondents have a satisfactory level of study attitude to most of the descriptors, particularly involving their perception towards their teacher. However, it should be noted that they sometimes perceive the negative in their teachers' expectations and personal characteristics. Overall, the respondents recorded a computed mean score of 2.71, which is interpreted as satisfactory. This would mean that the
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 21
respondents have moderate levels of positive study attitudes towards their teachers in general. Table 1. Study Attitudes in Indicators
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com terms of Teacher Approval Mean Interpretation 2.15 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that teachers don't understand the needs and interests of students.
My teachers make their subjects interesting and meaningful to me. 3.65 Satisfactory
I feel that teachers allow their likes and dislikes for students to influence 2.07 Fairly Satisfactory
their grading too much.
I believe that the easiest way to get good grades is to agree with everything 2.65 Satisfactory
the teachers say. I think that teachers like to show who's boss too much.
2.15 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that teachers are too narrow-minded and set in their ways. 2.32 Fairly Satisfactory
I think that teachers expect students to do too much studying outside of class. 3.65 Satisfactory
When explaining a lesson or answering questions, my teachers use words that 3.27 Satisfactory
I do not understand.
My teachers fail to give enough explanation of the things they are trying to 2.13 Fairly Satisfactory
teach.
I feel that teachers are too strict and know-it-all in dealing with students. 2.25 Fairly Satisfactory
I believe that teachers secretly enjoy giving their students a "hard time". 2.66 Satisfactory
I think that teachers tend to talk too much.
3.15 Satisfactory
I feel that teachers try to give the same amount of attention and help to all 3.25 Satisfactory
their students.
The illustrations, examples, and explanations given by my teachers are dull 2.13 Fairly Satisfactory
and hard to understand. I feel that teachers tend to look down upon their poorer fun of their mistakes.
students and make 2.20 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that teachers make their subjects too hard for the average student. 2.46 Fairly Satisfactory
I think that football coaches do more for school life than do the teachers. 2.19 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that teachers think more about grades than they purpose of schools. These mean computations are indications that respondents have a satisfactory level of study attitude to most of the descriptors, particularly involving their perception towards their teacher.
do about the real 2.35 Fairly Satisfactory However, it should be noted that they sometimes perceive the negative in their teachers' expectations and personal characteristics.
Table 1 (continued)
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
I think that students who ask questions and take part in class discussion are 3.32 Satisfactory
only trying to "get in good" with the teacher.
I believe that teachers deliberately give tests on the days following parties 3.74 Very Satisfactory
and ball games.
2.25 Satisfactory
I believe that one way to get good grades is by using flattery on your teachers.
I feel that it is almost impossible for the average student to do all of his 2.55 Satisfactory
assigned homework.
I feel that it is ridiculous assignments made by teachers are the main reason 2.58 Satisfactory
for student cheating.
I feel that students cannot be expected to like most teachers. 3.00 Satisfactory
I believe that teachers go into teaching mainly because they enjoy it. 3.69 Very Satisfactory
Average
2.71 Satisfactory
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 22
Overall, the respondents recorded a computed mean score of 2.71, which is interpreted as satisfactory. This would mean that the respondents have moderate levels of positive study attitudes towards their teachers in general. Furthermore, based on the data presented in Table 2, it can be gleaned that about of the respondents' education acceptance, 3.56 - 3.80 interpreted as very satisfactory indicates that they believe their teachers want their students to like them, their grades show about what I can do. The main job of the schools is to teach students things that will help them earn a living. Furthermore, - respondents reported mean scores of 2.61 3.84 described as satisfactory ratings indicate that even though they don't like the subject, they still work hard to make a good grade, they believe in doing only enough to get a passing grade, confused and undecided as to what they want to study in school and what they want to do after they get out of school, taking subjects which will do me little good, having a winning football team is just as important as learning history or math, and they believe that their teachers tend to avoid discussing present-day problems and events with their classes.
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com Meanwhile, mean scores of 2.24 - 2.49 interpreted as satisfactory ratings indicated that the respondents believe that certain teachers cause them to neglect their schoolwork, they would study harder if they were given more freedom to choose subjects that their like, lose interest in their studies after the first few days of school, not given enough freedom in selecting their topics for themes and reports and lack of interest in their schoolwork makes it hard for them to keep their attention on reading their assignments. Moreover, some of the respondents tend to believe that some of their school work is so uninteresting that they have to make themselves do the assignments, having a good time and getting one's full share of fun out of life is more important than studying, and it is not worth the time, money and effort that one must spend to get a college education. Based on the data presented in Table 2, it can be gleaned that the computed mean score of 2.79, which is interpreted as satisfactory. This would mean that, in general, the respondents have positive regard towards their education acceptance.
Table 2. Study Attitudes in terms of Education Acceptance
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
My dislike for certain teachers causes me to neglect my school work. 2.49 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that I would study harder if I were given more freedom to choose 2.47 Fairly Satisfactory
subjects that I like.
Even though I don't like a subject, I still work hard to make a good grade. 3.84 Satisfactory
I lose interest in my studies after the first few days of school. 2.42 Fairly Satisfactory
I believe that teachers really want their students to like them. 3.56 Very Satisfactory
I feel that students are not given enough freedom in selecting their own 2.48 Fairly Satisfactory
topics for themes and reports. Lack of interest in my school work makes it hard for attention on my reading assignments.
me to keep my 2.44 Fairly Satisfactory
Unless I really like a subject, I believe in doing only enough to get a passing 3.44 Satisfactory
grade.
I feel confused and undecided as to what I want to study in school and what 2.61 Satisfactory
I want to do after I get out of school.
Some of my school work is so uninteresting that I have to make myself do 2.34 Fairly Satisfactory
the assignments.
I believe that having a good time and getting one's full share of fun out of 2.40 Fairly Satisfactory
life is more important than studying.
I believe that teachers tend to avoid discussing present-day problems and 2.64 Satisfactory
events with their classes. I feel that my grades show about what I can really do.
3.78 Very Satisfactory
I feel that it is not worth the time, money and effort that one must spend 2.21 Fairly Satisfactory
to get a college education.
Some of my classes are so boring that I spend the class period drawing 2.24 Fairly Satisfactory
pictures, writing notes, or daydreaming instead of listening to the teacher.
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 23
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com
I feel that I am taking subjects which will do me little good. 3.12 Satisfactory
I believe that the main job of the schools is to teach students things that 3.80 Very Satisfactory
will help them earn a living. I try to become really interested in every subject I take.
2.21 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel that the main reason for going to college is to be admired and envied 3.06 Satisfactory
by others.
I believe that having a winning football team is just as important as learning 2.75 Satisfactory
history or math. Table 3 presents the study habits of the respondents in terms of delay avoidance; it can be gleaned that 4.24 - 3.55 interpreted as a very satisfactory rating indicated that the respondents believe that the assigned homework is extra-long or unusually hard, they either quit or study only the more manageable parts of the lesson, the assignment is dull and boring, they stick to it until
it is completed, keep all their work for each subject together and carefully arranged in some planned order and they're having trouble with their school work. Likewise, they do not bother to correct errors on their teachers' papers have graded and returned to them, and studying at home is done in an easy-going, unplanned manner.
Table 2 (continued)
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
I think that it might be best for me to drop out of school and get a job. 2.40 Fairly Satisfactory
2.71 Satisfactory
I feel that the things taught in school do not help one to meet adult
problems. Too much reading or studying gives me a headache.
2.46 Fairly Satisfactory
I feel like skipping school whenever there is something I'd rather do. 2.48 Fairly Satisfactory
I believe that higher grades are given to students who can memorize facts 3.38 Satisfactory
than to those who "think" things through. Average Hence, mean scores ranging from 2.46 - 3.46, interpreted as satisfactory rating, indicated that they think when they have to be absent from class, they need to make up for missed lessons without being reminded by the teacher, daydreaming distracts their attention from the lessons while they are studying, they are unable to study well because they get restless, moody, or have the
2.79 Satisfactory blues, they put off doing written assignments until the last minute and having too many other things to do causes them to get behind in their school work. Also, they try to do their assignments at school to reduce their homework and keep their assignments up to date by doing their work regularly from day to day.
Table 3. Study Habits in terms of Delay Avoidance
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
When my assigned homework is extra-long or unusually hard, I either quit or 3.73 Very Satisfactory
study only the easier parts of the lesson.
If I have to be absent from class, I make up missed lessons without being 3.49 Satisfactory
reminded by the teacher.
Daydreaming distracts my attention from my lessons while I am studying. 2.55 Satisfactory
Even though an assignment is dull and boring, I stick to it
until it is completed. 4.24 Very Satisfactory
I keep all my work for each subject together and carefully arranged in some 3.74 Very Satisfactory
planned order.
When I am having trouble with my school work, I try to talk it over with the 3.69 Very Satisfactory
teacher.
I do not bother to correct errors on the papers of my teachers have graded and 3.60 Very Satisfactory
returned to me. My place of study at home is kept neat and businesslike.
3.69 Very Satisfactory
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 24
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com 3.01 Satisfactory
Unless I really like a subject, I believe in doing only enough to get a passing
grade. It takes a long time for me to get warmed up to the job of
studying. 2.45 Fairly Satisfactory
I am unable to study well because I get restless, moody, or have the blues. 2.69 Satisfactory
I put off doing written assignments until the last minute.
3.13 Satisfactory
When I sit down to study I find myself too tired, bored, or sleepy to study well. 2.12 Fairly Satisfactory
I waste too much time talking, watching TV, listening to the radio, going to the 2.18 Fairly Satisfactory
movies, etc. for the good of my studies. My studying at home is done in an easy-going, unplanned
manner. 3.55 Very Satisfactory
Having too many other things to do causes me to get behind in my school work. 3.46 Satisfactory
I try to do my assignments at school so as to reduce my homework. 2.46 Satisfactory
Problems outside of school - with other students or at home - cause me to 2.67 Satisfactory
neglect my school work. I complete my homework assignments on time. More so, mean scores of 2.12 - 2.45 indicated as fairly satisfactory denotes that the respondents perception on their study habits in terms of delay avoidance are it takes a long time for them to get warmed up to the job of studying, when they sit down to study they find themselves too tired, bored, or sleepy to study well and they waste too much time talking, watching TV, listening to the radio, going to the movies, etc. for the good of their studies.
3.36 Satisfactory On the basis of the data presented in Table 3, it can be gleaned that the computed mean score of 3.19 which is interpreted as satisfactory. This would mean that in general, the respondents have moderate positive perception in response to challenges of delay avoidance. Table 4 presents the study habits of the respondents in terms their work method. This includes the use of effective study procedures, efficiency in doing academic assignments, and how-to-study skills.
Table 3 (continued)
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
I like to have a radio, record player, or television set turned on while I'm 3.79 Very Satisfactory
studying. With me, studying is sort of hit-or-miss depending on the I study an hour or more each day outside of school.
mood I'm in. 2.62 Satisfactory 3.44 Satisfactory
I keep my assignments up to date by doing my work regularly from day to day. 3.49 Satisfactory
I prefer to study my lessons alone rather than with others. 3.00 Satisfactory
At the beginning of a study period I plan my work so that my time. Average Respondents' responses mean scores ranging - from 3.58 3.64 interpreted as very satisfactory rating indicated that in preparing reports, themes, and other written work, they make sure that they
I will make best use of 3.62 Very Satisfactory 3.19 Satisfactory clearly understand what is wanted before they begin work. They do poorly on tests because they find it hard to think clearly and plan their work within a short period.
Table 4. Study Habits in terms of Work Method
Indicators
Mean Interpretation
In preparing reports, themes, and other written work, I make certain that I 3.58 Very Satisfactory
clearly understand what is wanted before I begin work.
I have trouble saying what I want to say on test, reports, and other work to be 2.61 Satisfactory
turned in.
Daydreaming distracts my attention from lessons while I'm studying. 2.35 Fairly Satisfactory
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 25
I give special attention to neatness on themes, reports, turned in.
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com and other work to be 3.39 Satisfactory
I memorize spelling rules, definition of words, rules of grammar, etc. without 3.47 Satisfactory
really understanding them.
I hesitate to ask a teacher for further explanation of an assignment that is not 2.28 Fairly Satisfactory
clear to me. I get nervous and confused when taking a test and fail to well as I otherwise could.
answer questions as 2.73 Satisfactory
I have trouble with spelling, grammar, and punctuation while writing themes 2.34 Fairly Satisfactory
and reports.
In taking notes, I tend to write down things which later turn out to be 3.66 Satisfactory
unimportant. I do poorly on tests because I find it hard to think clearly within a short period of time.
and plan my work 3.64 Very Satisfactory
I skip over the figures, graphs, and tables in a reading assignment. 2.91 Satisfactory
After reading several pages of an assignment, I am unable to remember what I 2.40 Fairly Satisfactory
have just read.
I find it hard to pick out the important points of a reading assignment - points 2.26 Fairly Satisfactory
that later appear on tests.
When in doubt about the proper form for a written assignment, I find a model 2.82 Satisfactory
or guide to follow. When reading a long assignment, I stop now and then to I have read.
try to remember what 3.42 Satisfactory
I seem to get very little done for the amount of time I spend studying. 2.47 Fairly Satisfactory
Hence, 2.25 - 2.47 mean scores interpreted as satisfactory rating indicated that they think they have trouble saying what they want to say on test, reports, and other work to be turned in, they give special attention to neatness on themes, reports, and other work to be turned in, they memorize spelling rules, the definition of words, rules of grammar, etc. without really understanding them.
Likewise, in taking notes, they tend to write down things which later turn out to be unimportant, when reading a long assignment, they stop now and then to try to remember what they have read, they copy the diagrams, drawings, tables, and other illustrations that the teacher puts on the blackboard and when tests are returned, they find that careless mistakes have lowered their grade.
Table 4 (continued)
Indicators
Mean interpretation
I can study a reading assignment for only a short while before the words stop 2.25 Fairly Satisfactory
making sense.
I copy the diagrams, drawings, tables, and other illustrations that the teacher 2.59 Satisfactory
puts on the blackboard.
I lose points on tests because I change my first answer only to discover later 2.65 Satisfactory
that I was right the first time.
When getting ready for a test I arrange facts to be learned in some planned 3.47 Satisfactory
order - order of importance, order in which taught, order of time in history, etc.
I am careless about spelling, punctuation, and grammar when answering test 2.72 Satisfactory
questions.
Although I work until the last possible minute, I am unable to finish test within 2.48 Fairly Satisfactory
the time allowed.
If time is left, I take a few minutes to check over my answers before turning in 3.62 Satisfactory
my test paper.
When tests are returned, I find that my grade has been lowered by careless 2.52 Satisfactory
mistakes. During the test I forget names, dates, formulas, and other know. Average
details that I really do 2.41 Fairly Satisfactory 2.84 Satisfactory
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 26
Moreover, a mean score of 2.28 - 2.47, interpreted as fairly satisfactory, indicated that respondents believe that daydreaming distracts their attention from lessons while they are studying, they hesitate to ask a teacher for further explanation of an assignment that is not clear to them, they have trouble with spelling, grammar, and punctuation while writing themes and reports. Further, after reading several pages of an assignment, they are unable to remember what they have just read, they find it hard to pick out the essential points of a reading assignment - points that later appear on test, they seem to get very little done for the amount of time they spend studying and during the test they forget names, dates, formulas, and other details that they really do know. On the data presented, it can be gleaned that the computed mean score of 2.84, which is interpreted
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com as satisfactory. This would mean that the respondents have a moderate level of work methods towards their study habits. 4.2. Level of the Academic Performance This part is composed of the tables for the level of academic performance. It includes Table 5, with the information about the students' academic performance from Accountancy, Business and Management (ABM) Strand and Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM), respectively. Studies considered the student's academic performance is vital in understanding how the students' knowledge and understanding can further progress to meet the institution's standards.
Table 5
Academic Performance of ABM and STEM
Indicators 90 - 100 (Outstanding) 85 - 89 (Very Satisfactory) 80 - 84 (Satisfactory) - 75 79 (Fairly Satisfactory) 74 and below (Did not meet Expectations) Total Table 5 presents the level of academic performance of the ABM and STEM students. The data presented in Table 5 shows that the most significant number of respondents, comprising 48.46% of the 85 respondents, belonged to the group who recorded outstanding grades. There were 40 respondents, 30.77% with very satisfactory grades, and 17.69% or 23 respondents with a satisfactory grade. Only 4 (3.08%) respondents have a fairly satisfactory grade. 4.3 Influence of Study Attitudes and Study Habits on the Academic Performance
Frequency Percentage 63 48.46 40 30.77 23 17.69 4 3.08 0 0.00 130 100.0 The subject of interest is to determine whether the study attitudes and study habits has a significant influence on respondents' academic performance. Utilizing the results of the Survey of Study Habits and Attitudes (SSHA - Form H) and the respondents' academic performance, the data tabulated and summarized in a contingency table. The data analysis in tables 6 and 7 will show the null hypothesis's probability, the respondents' study attitudes with moderate levels of teacher approval and education acceptance, and the respondents' study habits with average delay avoidance levels and work methods.
Table 6
Regression analysis of Study Attitudes on Academic Performance
Unstandardized Standardized
Variables Coefficients Coefficients
B (Constant) 90.348 Teacher approval 1.756
Std. Error Beta t Sig. 7.711 11.717 0 1.886 0.105 0.931 0.355
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 27
Education acceptance 1.328 R-squared = .014 F-value = .564 p-value = .571 alpha = 0.05 Results of the statistical analysis in table 6 and 7 reveals that teacher approval (B= 1.75), education acceptance (B= 1.33), delay avoidance (B= 2.03), and work method (B= 2.81) are not significant
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com 1.884 0.079 0.705 0.483 with associated probability greater than 0.05 alpha level of significance. Therefore, the null hypothesis is accepted.
Table 7
Regression analysis of Study Habits on Academic Performance
Unstandardized Standardized
Variables Coefficients Coefficients
B (Constant) 91.701 Delay avoidance 2.038 Work method 2.808 R-squared = .014 F-value = .564 p-value = .571 alpha = 0.05 5. DISCUSSION The study's main objective is to determine the study attitudes, study habits, and senior high school students' academic performance. Furthermore, this study investigates the influence of study attitudes and study habits on their academic performance. Study attitudes and study habits is a massive determinant of academic performance of the students. Indicators, for example, an individual's perception of their learning methods and the ability to cope with the classroom environment and the teacher's personality. This study utilized the descriptive-correlational research method to describe the respondents' profile in terms of their study attitudes and study habits and the level of their academic performance. Based on the study's findings, the respondents had an average level of study attitudes regarding their perception towards the teacher approval and education acceptance that indicates the opinion of
Std. Error Beta t Sig. 8.575 10.694 0 1.838 0.121 1.109 0.271 1.896 0.161 1.481 0.142 teachers and their classroom behavior and method e approval of educational objectives, practices, and requirements. Thus, the respondents had an average level of study habits in terms of their perception towards the delay avoidance and work methods that denotes their promptness in accomplishing academic requirements, lack of procrastination, and freedom from wasteful delay and distraction, and the use of effective study procedures, efficiency in doing academic assignments, and how-to-study skills. Furthermore, the probability if the null hypothesis is true about the respondents' study attitudes with moderate levels of teacher approval and education acceptance and the respondents' study habits with average levels of delay avoidance and work method. 6. CONCLUSION It can be stated that students can still improve their study attitudes and study habits, especially in terms of teacher approval, education
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 28
acceptance, delay avoidance, and work method. They are essential in every student's learning, implying recognizing the importance of study habits and study attitudes to be more efficient in learning. Also, understanding and building up such habits can vastly enhance a student's way of learning methods. The researcher understands explicitly that students should realize the importance of study habits that they needed to improve. This would help senior high school students since it will only be a few years before entering college. Overall, developing and improving study habits is essential for students. It might motivate them to be better and to be more excellent in class. The students were still developing their study attitudes and study habits, manifested moderate teacher approval, education acceptance, delay avoidance, and work methods. These may be attributed to their families' upbringing, the excellent curriculum, and practices that the institution had brought to them. The level of academic performance showed that the mean score of the respondents' academic performance was outstanding. Moreover, there was no respondent whose grade did not meet the expectations of the institution. This suggests that the respondents performed well in class. Thus, the senior high school's study attitudes and study habits revealed non-significance on their academic performance. Therefore, the null hypothesis is accepted. Hence, it is suggested that the prominent individuals surrounding the learners monitor and provide the needed support and guidance in improving their study attitudes and study habits. Thus, school personnel should devise additional programs to strengthen the students' study attitudes and study habits. Likewise, monitor the classroom environment to make progress in the learning activities to maximize the students' learning experience and boost their performance in class. REFERENCES [1] Aduke, A. F. (2015). Time Management and Students Academic Performance in Higher Institutions, Nigeria - A Case Study of Ekiti State. https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/4d73/3
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com 85792ee79b0f19c3e7f8a2983f8a50296d4 .pdf [2] Akpabio, I. I. (2015). Influence of study habits on undergraduate nursing students' academic performance in University of Calabar, Nigeria. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/281905580_Influence_of_study_habits_o n_undergraduate_nursing_students'_acade mic_performance_in_University_of_Calaba r_Nigeria [3] Akpan, N. (2015). Effect of Study Habit on Academic Achievement of Agricultural Science Students in Senior Secondary Schools in Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State, Nigeria. https://iiardpub.org/get/IJCCP/VOL%201 /118-125.pdf [4] Alade, O. M. & Kuku, O. O (2017). Impact of Frequency of Testing on Study Habits and Achievement in Mathematics Among Secondary School Students in Ogun State, Nigeria.https://scholarworks.waldenu.ed u/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1191&cont ext=jerap [5] Alimohamadi, N. et al (2018). Relation study between study habit and academic performance of nursing students in Hamadan. http://psj.umsha.ac.ir/browse.php?a_id=3 44&sid=1&slc_lang=en [6] Alsaqri, S., Alkweiese, M. & Dayrit, R. (2018). Impact of social networking sites on study habits among Saudi nursing students in Hail University. http://www.science- gate.com/IJAAS/2018/V5I4/Alsaqri.html [7] Alva, M. (2017). Self-Esteem, Study Habits and Academic Performance Among University Students. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ11393 45.pdf [8] Al-Zoubi, M. (2016). The Effect of the Time Management Art on Academic Achievement among High School Students in Jordan. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ10923 59.pdf [9] Anghelache, V. (2012). The Relationship between School Performance and Students' Mentality towards School Tasks Accomplishment. Preliminary Study. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/a rticle/pii/S187704281203279X
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 29
[10] Arieta, K. M., Gementiza, R. & Saco, C. J. (2017). Factors affecting study habits on the academic performance of Senior High School students of Davao Doctors College. https://www.scribd.com/document/3587 97618/Factors-Affecting-Study-Habits-on- Academic-Performance-of-Senior-High- School-Students-of-Davao-Doctors-College [11] Atsuwe, Bernard A.. Moses, & Nyikwagh I. (2017). Influence of the Study Habits on the Academic Performance of physics students in federal University of Agriculture Makurdi, Nigeria. https://escijournals.net/index.php/IJES/a rticle/view/2211 [12] Au, O., So, R. & Lee, L. K. (2017). Prior Knowledge Dwarfs Hard Work in Achieving Academic Performance. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.100 7/978-3-319-59360-9_13 [13] Awang, M. M. et al (2013). Students' Attitudes and Their Academic Performance in Nationhood Education. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ10687 43.pdf [14] Azzopardi, M. & Camilleri, L. (2018). Study Habits and level of difficulty encountered by Malthese students studying Biology advanced level topics. https://waset.org/abstracts/78038 [15] Banares, J. A. et al (2016). Study Habits of BSA students at Technological Institute of the Philippines - Manila. https://www.scribd.com/document/3292 50610/Study-Habits-of-Bsa-Students-at- Tip-manila [16] Basri, W. S. & Alghaswyneh, O. F. (2015). The Role of Time Management and its Impact On Students' academic achievement. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/315619559_The_Role_of_Time_Manage ment_and_its_Impact_On_Students'_acade mic_achievement [17] Boli, G. & Tok, B. R. (2017). Study Habits of Residential and Non-Residential Pupils of Grade III to V in Papumpare district of Arunachal Pradesh. http://www.ijhssi.org/papers/v6(9)/Vers ion-4/H0609044245.pdf [18] Bonney, K. M. (2015). Case Study Teaching Method Improves Student Performance and Perceptions of Learning Gains.
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articl es/PMC4416499/ [19] Cakiroglu, U. (2014). Analyzing the effect of learning styles and study habits of distance learners on learning performances: A case of an introductory programming course. http://www.irrodl.org/index.php/irrodl/ article/view/1840 [20] Dar, S. K., Halder, U. K. & Mishra, B. (2014). Study on relationship between attitude towards education and academic achievement in Secondary Level Minority Students. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/280979820_STUDY_ON_RELATIONSHIP _BETWEEN_ATTITUDE_TOWARDS_EDUC ATION_AND_ACADEMIC_ACHIEVEMENT_I N_SECONDARY_LEVEL_MINORITY_STUDE NTS [21] Ebele, Uju, F., Olofu, Paul, A. (2017). Study Habit and Its Impact on Secondary School Students' Academic Performance in Biology in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1143649 [22] Fouche, J. P. (2017). The reported study habits and time-management trends of postgraduate students in accountancy. http://www.journals.ac.za/index.php/saj he/article/view/1356 [23] Goud, M. C. (2018). A Study on the Factors Influencing Study Habits of Tenth Class Students in Their Academic Achievements. http://aiirjournal.com/uploads/Articles/ 2018/03/3000_43.Dr.Mandala%20Chand rashekhar%20Goud.pdf [24] Joshi, P. & Sharma, S. (2017). The Effect of Using Internet on Study Habits of Senior Secondary Students. http://www.journalijar.com/article/1853 2/the-effect-of-using-internet-on-study- habits-of-senior-secondary-students/ [25] Kaur, A. & Pathania, R. (2017). Study Habits and Academic Performance among late Adolescents: Studies on Home and Community Science: Vol 9, No. 1. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/1 0.1080/09737189.2015.11885430 [26] Khan, Z. N. (2016). Factors Effecting on Study. https://www.researchgate.net/ publication/303838187_Factors_affecting _study_habits [27] Khanam, N. et al (2017). A study on university student's time management and
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 30
academic achievement. http://www.ijcmph.com/index.php/ijcmp h/article/view/2216 [28] Lau, W. (2017). Effects of social media usage and social media multitasking on the academic performance of university students. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/a rticle/pii/S0747563216307841 [29] Lawrence, A. S. (2014). Relationship Between Study Habits and Academic Achievement of Higher Secondary School Students. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED54580 3.pdf [30] Leyrer-Jackson, J. & Wilson, A. (2017). The associations between social-media use and academic performance among undergraduate students in biology. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/1 0.1080/00219266.2017.1307246?journal Code=rjbe20 [31] Llavore, D., Duran, I. & Dungan B. (2015). Study Habits and the Performance of BSCS Students in Computer Programming-1. https://www.ijser.org/researchpaper/Stu dy-Habits-and-the-Performance-of-BSCS- Students-in-Computer-Programming- 1.pdf [32] Looyeh, H. R. et al (2017). The relationship between the Study Habits and the Academic Performance of medical sciences students. http://hnmj.gums.ac.ir/browse.php?a_id= 888&sid=1&slc_lang=en [33] MAPUA (2016). Ways to Improve Your Study Habits. Cardinal Blog. https://www.mapua.edu.ph/blog/2016/0 6/07/ways-to-improve-your-study- habits/ [34] Marpa, E. (2014). Correlation Among Time Management, Study Habits and Academic Achievement of the Math Major Students. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/260266663_CORRELATION_AMONG_TI ME_MANAGEMENT_STUDY_HABITS_AND_ ACADEMIC_ACHIEVEMENT_OF_THE_MAT H_MAJOR_STUDENTS [35] Masmiquel, J. L., Ferrer, A. C. & Fonseca D. (2017). School Performance Analysis from a Scholastic learning process. https://www.igi- global.com/article/school-performance-
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com analysis-from-a-scholastic-learning- process/176370 [36] Mendezabal, M. J. (2013). Study Habits and Attitudes: The Road to Academic Success. http://www.open-science- repository.com/study-habits-and- attitudes-the-road-to-academic- success.html [37] Numan, A. & Hasan S. S. (2017). Effect of Study Habits on Test Anxiety and Academic Achievement of Undergraduate Students. http://ue.edu.pk/jrre/articles/1101001.p df [38] Okado, K., Kida, N. & Sakai, T. (2018). Changes in Study Habits of Chinese Adolescents and Factors Supporting These Habits-Focusing on the Transition Period from Elementary School to Junior High School. http://www.scirp.org/journal/PaperInfor mation.aspx?paperID=84791 [39] Olutola, A. T. & Dosunmu, S. (2016). Assessing the Impact of Study Habit and Gender on Science Achievement of Secondary School Students in Katsina State, Nigeria. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/325248803_ASSESSING_THE_IMPACT_ OF_STUDY_HABIT_AND_GENDER_ON_SCIE NCE_ACHIEVEMENT_OF_SECONDARY_SC HOOL_STUDENTS_IN_KATSINA_STATE_NI GERIA [40] Onabamiro, Ph. D, Adegbenga, A. & Oduniami, I. A. (2017). Relationship between Study Habits and secondary school student's Academic Performance in Eti Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. http://www.globalacademicgroup.com/jo urnals/the%20nigerian%20academic%20 forum/RELATIONSHIP%20BETWEEN%2 0STUDY%20HABITS%20AND%20SECON DARY%20SCHOOL%20STUDENTS%E2% 80%99%20ACADEMIC%20PERFORMANC E%20IN%20ETI- OSA%20LOCAL%20GOVERNMENT%20A REA%20OF%20LAGOS%20STATE.pdf [41] Oriogu, C. D. & Subair R. (2017). Effect of Reading Habits on the Academic Performance of Students: A Case Study of the Students of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 31
n/319153968_Effect_of_Reading_Habits_o n_the_Academic_Performance_of_Students _A_Case_Study_of_the_Students_of_Afe_Bab alola_University_Ado-Ekiti_Ekiti_State [42] Osman, A. & Mohamed, R. A. (2016). Time Management and Academic Performance: Empirical Survey from High Education in Mogadishu-Somalia. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/310477885_TIME_MANAGEMENT_AND _ACADEMIC_PERFORMANCE_EMPIRICAL_ SURVEY_FROM_HIGH_EDUCATION_IN_MO GADISHU-SOMALIA [43] Priya, M. Dkhar & Dairit, C. (2015). Study habits and attitudes of school children. https://web.b.ebscohost.com/abstract?dir ect=true&profile=ehost&scope=site&autht ype=crawler&jrnl=22295356&AN=10842 5287&h=06eQdWuu7thgqSLwa4PelVCya HgQpG%2fkzFSg4SAOvpD4zv8TqE5fy1on RhTSomt%2bZRnIEf5wICygc8ISrDYGIg% 3d%3d&crl=c&resultNs=AdminWebAuth &resultLocal=ErrCrlNotAuth&crlhashurl=l ogin.aspx%3fdirect%3dtrue%26profile% 3dehost%26scope%3dsite%26authtype% 3dcrawler%26jrnl%3d22295356%26AN %3d108425287 [44] Rabia, M. et al (2017). A Study on Study Habits and Academic Performance of Students. https://ideas.repec.org/a/asi/ijoass/2017 p891-897.html [45] Sayari, K. (2017). Assessing the Relationship of Time Management and Academic Performance of the Business Students in Al-Zahra College for Women. http://www.sciencepublishinggroup.com/ journal/paperinfo?journalid=324&doi=10. 11648/j.ebm.20170301.11 [46] Sikhwari, T.D. (2016). Study Habits, Attitudes and Academic Achievement: Comparing Grade 12 learners between two secondary schools. https://journals.co.za/content/journal/10 520/EJC-50f31e9f3 [47] Sreelekha, V. et al (2016). Study habits and academic performance of first year MBBS students. http://www.scopemed.org/?mno=213760 [48] Solis-Foronda, Marisol (2017). Physical Science Students' Study Habits, Attitudes and
IJARW | ISSN (O) - 2582-1008 © October 2020 | Vol. 2 Issue. 4 www.ijarw.com Readiness.https://www.ingentaconnect.c om/contentone/asp/asl/2017/00000023 /00000002/art00083 [49] Stanley, S. (2014). Study Habits of distance learners: A comparative Analysis. http://journal.ignouonline.ac.in/iojp/inde x.php/IJOL/article/view/1124 [50] Stein, Z. C. & Israeli A. (2017). Knowledge, Attitudes and Perceptions About Routine Childhood Vaccinations Among Jewish Ultra-Orthodox Mothers Residing in Communities with Low Vaccination Coverage in the Jerusalem District. Maternal & Child Health Journal. May 2017, Vol. 21 Issue 5, p1010-1017. 8p. [51] Thiyagu, K. (2013). Study Habits and Academic Achievement of Ninth Standard Students. https://www.slideshare.net/THIYAGUSU RI/thiyagu-article-5-37267662 [52] Uysal, Sengul & Banoğlu, Köksal. (2018). Hogging the middle lane: How student performance heterogeneity leads Turkish schools to fail in PISA?. Cypriot Journal of Educational Sciences. 13. 448-460. 10.18844/cjes.v13i2.3196. [53] Vashishta, S., Ahuja, S. & Sharma, M. (2017). Impact of Facebook addiction disorder on study habits and academic achievement or adolescent. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/322329881_IMPACT_OF_FACEBOOK_A DDICTION_DISORDER_FAD_ON_STUDY_H ABITS_AND_ACADEMIC_ACHIEVEMENT_O F_ADOLESCENTS [54] Versova, M. & Mala, D. (2016). Attitude toward School and Learning and Academic Achievement of Adolescents. https://www.researchgate.net/publicatio n/310742651_Attitude_toward_School_an d_Learning_and_Academic_Achievement_o f_Adolescents [55] Vijas, S. & Choudhary, G. (2016). Study Habits of Sr. Sec. School Adolescent Students In Relation To Their Socio- Economic Status. http://www.allresearchjournal.com/archi ves/2016/vol2issue6/PartC/2-5-177- 454.pdf
IJARW1382 International Journal of All Research Writings 32